Q1. Make a calculator with user input of num1 and num2,
it should do all four arithmetic operations. [by Me]

Q2. Write a Python program to convert temperature in
degree Celsius to degree Fahrenheit. If water boils
at 100 degree C and freezes as 0 degree C, use the
program to find out what is the boiling point and
freezing point of water on the Fahrenheit scale.
(Hint: T(°F) = T(°C) × 9/5 + 32)

Q3. Write a Python program to calculate the amount
payable if money has been lent on simple interest.
Principal or money lent = P, Rate of interest = R%
per annum and Time = T years. Then Simple Interest
(SI) = (P x R x T)/ 100.
Amount payable = Principal + SI.
P, R and T are given as input to the program.

Q4. Write a program to calculate in how many days a
work will be completed by three persons A, B and
C together. A, B, C take x days, y days and z days
respectively to do the job alone. The formula to
calculate the number of days if they work together
is xyz/(xy + yz + xz) days where x, y, and z are given
as input to the program.

Q5. Write a program that asks the user
to enter their name and age. Print a
message addressed to the user that tells the user
the year in which they will turn 100 years old.

Q6. Presume that a ladder is put upright against
a wall. Let variables length and angle store
the length of the ladder and the angle that
it forms with the ground as it leans against
the wall. Write a Python program to compute
the height reached by the ladder on the
wall for the following values of length and angle:
	a) 16 feet and 75 degrees
	b) 20 feet and 0 degrees
	c) 24 feet and 45 degrees
	d) 24 feet and 80 degrees

Q7. Write a function to print the table of a given number.
The number has to be entered by the user.

Q8. Write a program to generate the sequence: –5, 10,
–15, 20, –25….. upto n, where n is an integer input
by the user.

Q9. Write a program to find the sum of 1+ 1/8 +
1/27......1/n3, where n is the number input by the
user.

Q10. Write a function that checks whether an input
number is a palindrome or not.
[Note: A number or a string is called palindrome if it
appears same when written in reverse order also. For
example, 12321 is a palindrome while 123421 is not a
palindrome]

Q11. Try to make different patterns, it will require a nested loop
*
* *
* * *
* * * *
* * * * *
something like this, try to play with the loops, change the values you put,
make it so it displays numbers, numbers but increasing or decreasing,
with each line or with each iteration, alphabets or anything you wish
this was a right angled triangle, try to make a pyramid maybe or
a right angled triangle but from right side (the eg one is from left)
This will really help you understand loops... [by Me]

Q12. Make a program that uses a while loop to take input of user's name 
and age as long as they want to keep giving inputs, afterwards check if 
they are elidgible for any certain thing related to age [show me your 
creativity; by Me]

Q13. Remember the calculator you made in Q1? make that 
code in such a way that it continues to run back and forth
until and unless the user doesn't want to calculate anymore.
All I mean is use while loop and make it so it loops so we 
can calulate as long as we want. [by Me]

Note to you after Q13: Read theory about String List Tuple and
Dictionary Functions, well, this will help a lot. I can't possibly
list every functions's related questions. 
Also acc to NCERT User Defined Functions is followed after 
flow of control, so I'll also give Functions questions from now on.
Annnnd, also study about Random module and Math module

Indexing, its a very very important topic, learn about it thorougly 

Q14. Write a program to input line(s) of text from the user
until enter is pressed. Count the total number of
characters in the text (including white spaces),total
number of alphabets, total number of digits, total
number of special symbols and total number of
words in the given text.
Hint by Me: You have to use while loop for inputs
and diff string functions to do the rest...

Q15. Write a program to check the divisibility of a
number by 7 that is passed as a parameter to the
user defined function.

Q16. Write a program that uses a user defined function
that accepts name and gender (as M for Male,
F for Female) and prefixes Mr/Ms on the basis of
the gender.

Q17. Write a program that has a user defined function
to accept the coefficients of a quadratic equation
in variables and calculates its determinant. For
example : if the coefficients are stored in the
variables a,b,c then calculate determinant as
b2-4ac. Write the appropriate condition to check
determinants on positive, zero and negative and
output appropriate result.

Q18. ABC School has allotted unique token IDs from (1 to
600) to all the parents for facilitating a lucky draw
on the day of their Annual day function. The winner
would receive a special prize. Write a program using
Python that helps to automate the task.(Hint: use
random module)

Q19. Write a program that implements a user defined
function that accepts Principal Amount, Rate,
Time, Number of Times the interest is compounded
to calculate and displays compound interest.
(Hint: CI=P*(1+r/n)^nt)

Q20. Input a string having some digits. Write a function
to return the sum of digits present in this string.

Q21. Write a function that takes a sentence as an input
parameter where each word in the sentence is
separated by a space. The function should replace
each blank with a hyphen and then return the
modified sentence.

I won't be including questions purely based on in built
function usage so please practice them from the books
(if you need the e-books, I'll send them)

Q22. Write a program to find the number of times an
element occurs in the list.

Q23. Write a program to read a list of n integers (positive
as well as negative). Create two new lists, one
having all positive numbers and the other having
all negative numbers from the given list. Print all
three lists.

Q24. Write a program to read a list of n integers and find
their median.
Note: The median value of a list of values is the
middle one when they are arranged in order. If there
are two middle values then take their average.
Hint: You can use an built-in function to sort the list

Q25. Write a program to read a list of elements. Modify
this list so that it does not contain any duplicate
elements, i.e., all elements occurring multiple times
in the list should appear only once.

Q26. Write a program to read elements of a list.
	a) The program should ask for the position of
	the element to be deleted from the list. Write
	a function to delete the element at the desired
	position in the list.
	
	b) The program should ask for the value of the
	element to be deleted from the list. Write a
	function to delete the element of this value
	from the list.

[if you want, make another program for inserting 
the value rather than deleting]

Q27. Write a program to read email IDs of n number of
students and store them in a tuple. Create two new
tuples, one to store only the usernames from the
email IDs and second to store domain names from
the email IDs. Print all three tuples at the end of the
program. [Hint: You may use the function split()]

Q28. Write a program to input names of n students and
store them in a Tuple. Also, input a name from the
user and find if this student is present in the tuple or not.
[You can write a code or use a built-in function, do any of these]

Q29. Write a Python program to find the highest 2 values
in a dictionary.

Q30. Write a Python program to create a dictionary from
a string.
Note: Track the count of the letters from the string.
Sample string : 'w3resource'
Expected output : {'3': 1, 's': 1, 'r': 2, 'u': 1, 'w': 1, 'c': 1,
'e': 2, 'o': 1}

Q31. Write a program to input your friends’ names
and their Phone Numbers and store them in the
dictionary as the key-value pair. Perform the
following operations on the dictionary:
	a) Display the name and phone number of all your
	friends
	
	b) Add a new key-value pair in this dictionary and
	display the modified dictionary
	
	c) Delete a particular friend from the dictionary
	
	d) Modify the phone number of an existing friend
	
	e) Check if a friend is present in the dictionary or
	not
	
	f) Display the dictionary in sorted order of names

Q32. Remember the calculator you made in Q13? make that 
code in such a way that it includes exeption handling.
Zero Division error, Input related errors or anyother 
you can think of... make the calculator exeptionless.
[by Me]

Q33. Make a program that reads a text file and Count
the total number of characters (including white spaces),
total number of alphabets, total number of digits,
total number of special symbols and total number of
words. [by Me]

Q34. Similarly, make a function that takes a letter, word,
or anything in string format and count how many time it
occured in the text. [by Me]

Q35. Make a program that creates a copy of the content of 
the txt file you read and writes that into a new txt file.

Q36. Instead of Creating a new txt file, copy and append the
content of one txt file to another existing txt file.

Q37. Make a program to check if a line in a text file is starting
or ending with a character the user inputs. (you should ask if
checking start or ending, also note that a new line character is
placed in the end of each line '\n' this is considered as one 
whole character not two, this is one of many escape characters) [by Me]

Q38. Make a program that reads a txt file and does not include the lines
starting with, let's say 'so' and writes them into a new text file. [so if a 
file contains 5 lines and one of the lines start with 'so' then that line
won't be written into the new text file] [by Me]

Q39. Make a program that reads a txt file and checks for a specific 
symbol, let's say '&' and then writes all the content upto the symbol
'&' into a new text file. [so if a file contains 400 words and one of those
words is or has '&' in it, then the code will write everything before the
'&' into a new file] [by Me]

Q40. Make a program that takes user input of string lines as long as they
want and then write those line to brand new file.
[use write(), this has to be inserted into every iteration of the loop.
make the same program but use writelines(), in this you have to make a
list from the user inputs with list's append() function in each iteration
of the loop and then outside of the loop writelines(<list name>)] [by Me]

Q41. Make the following questions of txt files but take the reading file 
a binary file (.dat) and make the changes required: Q33 to Q36. [by Me]

Q42. A binary file "student.dat" has structure [admission_number, Name, Percentage].
	a. Write a function takedata() in Python that would take input from the data to 
	put into the file "student.dat" for as long as they want.
	
	b. Write a function countrec() in Python that would read contents of the file
	"student.dat" and display the details of those students whose percentage is above 75.
	Also display number of students scoring above 75%.

Q43. A binary file "Book.dat" has structure [BookNo, Book_Name, Author, Price].
	a. Write a user defined function CreateFile() to input data for a record and add to "Book.dat".
	
	b. Write a function CountRec(Author) in Python which accepts the Author name as parameter and
	count and return number of books by the given Author are stored in the binary file "Book.dat".

Q44. Q3 Writea nct•on In pyt on to searc an Isp ay etal s, w ose est•natlon IS
"Cochin" from binary file "Bus.Dat". Assuming the binary file is containing the following
elements in the list: [Bus Number, Bus Starting Point, Bus Destination]

Q45.Write a program to read all the data from any csv file and another code
to read all the data from any binary file and print the whole data. [by Me]

Q46. Write a program to search the record from "data.csv"
according to the admission number input from the user. Structure
of record saved in "data.csv" is Adm no, Name, Class, Section,
Marks

Q47. Write a program to add/insert records in file "data.csv".
Structure of a record is roll number, name and class.

Q48. Write a program to read all content of "student.csv" and
display records and the no. of only those students who scored more 
than 80 marks. Records stored in students is in format : Rollno, Name,
Marks

Q49. Write a program to display all the records from product.csv
whose price is more than 300 also display the total no. of products
whose price is more than 300. Format of record stored in
product.csv is product id, product name, price.

Q50. Write a program to count number of records present in
"data.csv" file.

Q51. Case based
	a. Write a program to calculate the sum of all the marks given in
	the file "marks.csv. Records in "marks.csv" are as follows .
	Rollno, Name, Marks
	1, Suman, 67
	2, Aman,71
	3, Mini, 68
	4, Amit, 80
	
	b. Write a program to modify the record of a student in a file
	"data.csv". Following records are saved in file.
	Rollno, Name, Marks
	1, Aman, 35
	2, Kanak, 1
	3, Anuj, 33
	4, suman, 25
	
	c. Write a program to show the detail of the student who
	scored the highest marks. Data stored in "Data.csv" is given below :
	Rollno, Name, Marks
	1, Aman, 35
	2, Kanak, 1
	3, Anuj, 33
	4, suman, 25
	
Q52. Stack Functions, these should be made by following stack etiquettes:
	a. Write a python function named is_underflow() to check a stack is an underflow.

	b. Write a function push(item) to push an element into the stack.

	c. Write a python function pop() to delete an element from the stack.

	d. Write a function display() to display the stack elements.

	e. Write a function peek() to inspect an element from the stack.

Q53. Write functions AddPlayer(player) and DeletePlayer(player) in python to add 
and remove a player by considering them as push and pop operations in a stack.

Q54. Vedika has created a dictionary containing names and marks as key-value pairs
of 5 students. Write a program, with separate user-defined functions to perform the
following operations:
	a. Push the keys (name of the student) of the dictionary into a stack, where the 
	corresponding value (marks) is greater than 70.
	b. Pop and display the content of the stack after change.