Alibaba aur Chalis Chor
In a town in Persia there dwelled two brothers, one named Cassim, the other Ali Baba.
Cassim was married to a rich wife and lived in plenty; while Ali Baba had to maintain his wife and children by cutting wood in a neighbouring forest and selling it in the town.
One day, when Ali Baba was in the forest, he saw a troop of men on horseback, coming toward him in a cloud of dust.
He was afraid they were robbers, and climbed into a tree for safety.
When they came up to him and dismounted, he counted forty of them.
They unbridled their horses and tied them to trees.
The finest man among them, whom Ali Baba took to be their captain, went a little way among some bushes, and said: "Open Sesame!" so plainly that Ali Baba heard him.
A door opened in the rocks, and having made the troop go in, he followed them, and the door shut again of itself.
They stayed some time inside, and Ali Baba, fearing they might come out and catch him, was forced to sit patiently in the tree.
At last the door opened again, and the forty thieves came out.
As the captain went in last, he came out first, and made them all pass by him.
He then closed the door, saying, "Shut Sesame!" Every man bridled his horse and mounted.
The captain put himself at their head, and they returned as they came.
Then Ali Baba climbed down and went to the door concealed among the bushes, and said: "Open Sesame!" It flew open.
Ali Baba, who expected a dull, dismal place, was greatly surprised to find it large and well lighted, hollowed by the hand of man in the form of a vault, which received the light from an opening in the ceiling.
He saw rich bales of merchandise $$$ – silk brocades, all piled together, and gold and silver in heaps, and money in leather purses.
He went in and the door shut behind him.
He did not look at the silver, but brought out as many bags of gold as he thought his asses, which were browsing outside, could carry.
He loaded them with the bags, and hid it all with fagots.
Using the words: "Shut Sesame!" he closed the door and went home.
Then he drove his asses into the yard, shut the gates, carried the money-bags to his wife, and emptied them out before her.
He bade her to keep the secret, and he would go and bury the gold.
"Let me first measure it," said his wife.
"I will go and borrow a measure off someone, while you dig the hole." So she ran to the wife of Cassim and borrowed a measure.
Knowing Ali Baba’s poverty, the sister was curious to find out what sort of grain his wife wished to measure, and artfully put some suet at the bottom of the measure.
Ali Baba’s wife went home and set the measure on the heap of gold, and filled it and emptied it often, to her great content.
She then carried it back to her sister, without noticing that a piece of gold was sticking to it, which Cassim’s wife perceived directly whilst her back was turned.
She grew very curious, and said to Cassim when he came home: "Cassim, your brother is richer than you.
He does not count his money, he measures it." He begged her to explain this riddle, which she did by showing him the piece of money and telling him where she found it.
Then Cassim grew so envious that he could not sleep, and went to his brother in the morning before sunrise.
"Ali Baba," he said, showing him the gold piece, "you pretend to be poor and yet you measure gold." By this Ali Baba perceived that through his wife’s folly Cassim and his wife knew their secret, so he confessed all and offered Cassim a share.
"That I expect," said Cassim, "but I must know where to find the treasure, otherwise I will discover all, and you will lose all." Ali Baba, more out of kindness than fear, told him of the cave, and the very words to use.
Cassim left Ali Baba, meaning to be beforehand with him and get the treasure for himself.
He rose early next morning, and set out with ten mules loaded with great chests.
He soon found the place, and the door in the rock.
He said: "Open Sesame!" and the door opened and shut behind him.
He could have feasted his eyes all day on the treasures, but he now hastened to gather together as much of it as possible; but when he was ready to go he could not remember what to say for thinking of his great riches.
Instead of "Sesame," he said: "Open Barley!" and the door remained fast.
He named several different sorts of grain, all but the right one, and the door still stuck fast.
He was so frightened at the danger he was in that he had as much forgotten the word as if he had never heard it.
About noon the robbers returned to their cave, and saw Cassim’s mules roving about with great chests on their backs.
This gave them the alarm; they drew their sabres, and went to the door, which opened on their Captain’s saying: "Open Sesame!" Cassim, who had heard the trampling of their horses’ feet, resolved to sell his life dearly, so when the door opened he leaped out and threw the Captain down.
In vain, however, for the robbers with their sabres soon killed him.
On entering the cave they saw all the bags laid ready, and could not imagine how anyone had got in without knowing their secret.
They cut Cassim’s body into four quarters, and nailed them up inside the cave, in order to frighten anyone who should venture in, and went away in search of more treasure.
TO BE CONTINUED...